I remember uh when we got our first
office it was a wework then we subletted
out someone else's office and then we
ended up getting our own office that was
bigger we had to change offices three
times in one year because we were just
kept growing and growing in a head coach
hey Neil welcome to the leaders lab
thanks for having me yeah of course so
Neil um you know I just introduced you
um of course tons of accolades and well
everything from Wall Street Journal to
Forbes and you know you got started on
this path I know really really young and
I didn't talk about that in your intro
but I'd love to hear a little bit more
about kind of your upbringing and how
you became
you know this marketing Guru where did
it all start
yeah sure so I don't know if I'm a
marketing Guru but uh nonetheless you
know I'm I'm 38 now I started when I was
15 and a half let's Round Up to say 16.
and I was looking for a job you know I
wanted a high pay job I don't want a
minimum wage job back in the days when I
was 16 minimum wage was much lower than
it is now although I still think it's
low right now I wanted a high paying job
so I was going on site techmonster.com
and Career Builder and trying to find
jobs uh LinkedIn wasn't really popular
back then I don't even know if it
existed back then either way
I ran into some high-paying jobs but
they all required certification for uh
software or you know certain types of
companies like you know oracle
certifications and
that kind of stuff I just ate and a half
and B the other thing it required was
college degree being 16 and I have a
college degree I wasn't a brainiac
so what I started doing was I was like
all right I can't find one of these high
paying six-figure jobs being 16. what
I'm gonna do is just create a job board
like a monster.com because when I was
browsing these sites I was looking at
their stock price I was like whoa some
of these guys are worth hundreds of
millions of dollars if I make one
percent of what they make I'm gonna be a
rich person I'll never have to work a
day in my life
so I created my own job website uh
learned how to create websites paid some
people for the areas I couldn't figure
it out and I would uh work nine to five
minimum wage jobs like cleaning uh or
picking up trash and cleaning restrooms
at a theme park to help pay for the
contractors that would help me you know
pop my own job website
got it out there no one came to it
and saved up more money working nine to
five cleaning up toilets
and then I paid a market for him to help
me out got no results again and then I
had no choice but to learn it on my own
because I was running out of money
and I want to start learning it online
sorry Neil I just wanted to pause just
for a second because I didn't want to
get too far from it but
you're 15 and a half and I mean of
course everybody wants like the highest
paying job right I mean to me it's like
the same kind of thought of like you
know I want to be LeBron James or
something like what installed in you and
instilled in you that you could do that
like what I mean did you have parents
that were just like anything's possible
or or like what is ignorance yeah thank
you I was just young and I didn't know
better
so you're like why not I I should be
able to get 100K job and and I'll figure
it out
ignorance yeah okay I didn't know how
the real world worked I also thought
when you pop up a website people just
come to it I learned that that doesn't
that's not the case and then I had to
pay a marketing firm right sure uh so
when I
started learning it on my own
I got good results started getting over
a hundred thousand visitors a month to
my website and I was like wow this is
amazing but you know what still wasn't
really generating any revenue from it
because I didn't know how to monetize
and uh but I got on the traffic side
didn't do well on the other end of
monetization and I was like you know
this is gonna be really hard I'm good at
this traffic side let me just call up
all the people that do Google ads and
Pitch them saying like hey I'll get you
guys more traffic if I get you the
traffic pay me if I don't pay me zero
and that's really how I started
so
I love that everything that you did I
mean especially early on you had these
instincts that went I know what I'm good
at I know what I'm not good at you know
I'll hire into what I'm not good at see
if someone can provide value if they
don't I'll try to figure it out on my
own
um I'm curious so how did you get at
that young age how were you able to
attract did you say a hundred thousand
people a month to your website like how
did you do that
uh raking the website on Google social
media wasn't as big back then but I was
ranking the site on Google
very cool very cool and so
how long did this go on and what
happened next
I kept doing it uh one of the clients we
had it was one of my first clients was a
power supply manufacturer drove them
25-ish million a year in revenue from
the web
um I was the one who drove the revenue I
drove the leads and then someone else
had to close the leads and then the
owner of the company introduced me to
his son who owned the Ad Agency his son
got me clients like Blue Cross Country
Wide I had roughly four clients from the
father and the son combined it's getting
five grand a month per client making 20
grand a month
yeah how old were you at that point 16
still oh my gosh
so well yeah things move fast
technically I started when I was 15 and
a half so I had a year and a half to
start making some progress wow so you're
knocking down you have a business doing
a few hundred thousand dollars a year
then by the time you're 17 years old
amazing so where did it go from there
kept going did well grew into the
millions and then the recession happened
in 2008 and then it started going
backwards
and it started getting worse and worse
at the same time a few years before that
we started creating a software company
called crazy a and crazy it was like all
right all these people spend money on
ads Let's help them optimize their
conversions so that way they get more of
those clicks turning into sales or leads
or whatever you want to call it
and that business was growing during the
recession so we stopped running the Ad
Agency close it down Focus all the
effort on the software company and let
that grow and uh it was a nice win for
us the software company kept growing
it's still growing today it's much much
larger and then from there I did a lot
of other businesses uh I ended up coming
back full circle my current company
which I've had for five years now that I
spent all my time on is NP digital it's
a Ad Agency that is leveraging software
and AI to make things more efficient and
provide better results to customers for
700 plus employees uh we were number 21
on the Inc 500 list the first time we
got on that list and yeah we're still
growing even in a bad economy
very cool and you you're the co-founder
in that company who's your partner in
that a guy named Mike Campbell he runs a
lot of the operations technically we
have a CEO now named Mike as well Mike
gullickson and he runs the whole company
so as you scaled up from uh did you end
up going to school or because you were
already or or you know secondary
education did you go to college or did
you just skip it because you were
already pretty well invested in the
business world at that point
uh
uh I ended up going to
uh school I went to college I didn't
want to go to college but my parents
forced me to right they're like as
Indian kid you need to get your college
degree that's what they all have no good
Indian girls gonna marry you unless you
get a college degree uh and then
eventually my parents just wanted me to
get married and they didn't care if it
was Indian or whatever race and then
eventually I got married and they were
ecstatic uh my wife is a mutt She's
mixed in other words right uh but I went
to college got my degree took me five
and a half years took the last year and
a half to finish one class because I
just didn't care to graduate because I
learned making decent money by then
right sure I mean if you're running
these companies on the side and yeah I
mean you've got a pretty compelling day
job
yeah cause you didn't do anything for me
I still haven't used anything I've
learned in college and it actually
slowed me down right didn't learn but
you got the degree so Mom and Dad are
happy right
um they're happy they don't care anymore
but you know back then they didn't know
how long this was gonna last I was gonna
keep making money or not so yeah
so uh what made you choose to partner uh
you said MP digital started about five
years ago
uh-huh
and how did it go from I mean was it you
said you're at 700 employees now in five
years like did it did it start from
nothing or did it used to be something
else or like from nothing
wow so talk to me about it
yeah it was it was fast growth I think
our first year we did 5 million in
Revenue second year I think we did 18
and it just kept growing
and and how about number of employees
what did that look like after say a year
versus three years I don't know but it
kept growing with uh with the revenue I
remember uh when we got our first office
it was a wework then we subletted out
someone else's office and then we ended
up getting our own office that was
bigger we had to change offices three
times in one year because we were just
kept growing and growing in a head count
and then I don't want to sign a
five-year lease so I was just like uh
let's get the cheapest office we can
that we could just crap people into
right
uh I see that a lot with we were clients
I mean especially in the tech space when
they're growing right because I'm a
wework member and yeah you just see
people come in take over sweets and then
I mean either either they don't make it
and they're out or they make it and
they're like taking over more and more
and more space what have you learned
about yourself because I mean
you're a marketing guy you're it seems
like a very amazing entrepreneurial
instincts as well
um what about on the leadership side
what's that been like for you like you
know what did is running a team your
strength or is that something a terrible
leader I really am I'm good at ideas and
where I want to go and pitching and
sales but I'm a terrible leader so we
hire people uh who just focus in on that
and I don't spend any of my time on that
kind of stuff uh well I think that alone
gets you out of the terrible category
but I know what you're saying I mean I I
think the terrible leader is the one
that doesn't know that and keeps trying
to do it anyway and screws up their own
company right I mean so I think just
having the self-awareness to go like
here's my lane and you know have you
ever heard that
um that's saying that everybody that
owns a business is either the leader uh
the artist entrepreneur or the artist or
the entrepreneur have you ever heard
that
haven't before but I have now yeah so I
see you as this
um probably mix of the artist and the
entrepreneur and maybe even more the
artist because the entrepreneur I think
that you know like when you hear the
term and I think it's overused but like
when people say like serial entrepreneur
that would be somebody that's really in
it to turn it and flip it and make money
right kind of like you know what's the
ROI on this how long do we got to stay
in it
um yeah when can we go IPO I don't think
that's you either and but the artist
part I think you have an entrepreneurial
you care about the money it's silly uh
when you love what you're doing you just
love what you're doing yeah that that
that literally would be the artist's uh
quotation if you looked up you know if
if what I'm talking about was in a
dictionary and they said to find an
artist the quote that an artist would
say is it's not really work if you love
what you're doing and and the
entrepreneur and the and the uh the
entrepreneurs thing would be something
like uh you know it's only good business
if you have Roi after the first year
what ever right so they're not as
invested versus the leader manager wants
to build and invest in teams right and
so I think it's whether you've heard
these you haven't heard these terms
before but you're aware of them only
because you're aware of who you are and
you go look I'm not that leader manager
let's bring that person on right
yes I'm definitely not that leader
manager and I don't enjoy it either what
about your co-founder where does uh he
fit into all of this he's a leader
manager okay that makes sense and so
he's a leader manager but you guys
because of the size the company still
need to bring other people in to help
you run it so your day-to-day is
probably more on the product Vision
things like that I would assume and and
strategy things like that yeah his is
more on recruiting and sales and the CEO
handles everything
all the day-to-day that completely makes
sense that sounds like based on
personalities are really good um
division of Duty so our audience is
primarily I would say people in the uh
not the most Junior side of their career
but not at the you know end of it either
I'd say somewhere in kind of The Sweet
Spot of their career you know the money
making years and both corporate types as
well as entrepreneurs
when you are you know our audience is is
different than your client base probably
in terms of
um you know we're working directly with
companies I guess on their strategy and
where to go to market I think ours is
like I said this mix of individual
companies but then also you know these
larger corporations where there's
leaders within those corporations
and I was listening to you on another
podcast and it sounds like you guys
really leveraged like from a social
media standpoint as an example you guys
leverage it seems like every
every vehicle that's out there right
it's like Tick Tock what's the strategy
on Instagram what's the strategy and I I
may be completely wrong in this because
that's why I'm asking the expert but
I've always been like for my kind of
business which is Talent acquisition and
and it's very Niche and it's very
leadership oriented and you know we have
a specific type of both client and
candidate
I've only looked at like when it comes
to social media I just look at LinkedIn
you know I'm not
you know I'm not gonna probably find my
candidates or my clients on Tick Tock as
an example at least that's my perception
am I am I wrong or do you think most
businesses should be looking at all of
these Avenues in one way shape or form
so
you're correct in one form but wrong
another and I don't mean it in a bad way
uh you're probably gonna find majority
of your customers on places like the
linkedins right but if you're creating
content
for LinkedIn or YouTube or Instagram or
Facebook you can repurpose the content
use it on Tick Tock and all the other
platforms now the majority of your
customer base is not on Tick Tock but a
small percent of them are so if you're
creating the content once you can reuse
the same content put it everywhere and
get a bigger bang for the buck it may
not do as well on Tick Tock but
something's better than nothing yeah
better way to think about it absolutely
and I heard you see something on another
podcast I was listening to and I don't
remember the term that you used but it
was something around you know people
getting familiar with you right like
like just people getting
getting so in marketing they call it the
rule of seven when someone sees or
interacts with your brand sometimes
they're much more likely to engage with
you evangelize you become a customer
Etc and the way you do that is you be
Omni Channel you got to be on all the
channels to really get out there because
the way these algorithms work is if you
have a thousand dollars and you post
something a thousand followers don't see
it a fraction so you gotta actually put
it out everywhere
and and so your take is yes uh yes and
no to what I said yes in the sense that
know that my demographic lives in a
certain spot for me that's LinkedIn for
somebody else maybe that's Facebook and
so maybe the content is like okay we're
making this primarily for a LinkedIn
audience but since we're gonna do it
anyway we might as well
Twitter and all the other social
channels that you can think of but yeah
I guess maybe I'm just like an old maybe
I'm like aging dating myself here but
like it's funny because when I think of
tick tock I just think of like 16 year
old girls dancing you know what I mean
and and so my person used to be that way
yeah
it used to be where there's a lot of
kids they were the early adopters but
it's changed when Facebook first started
it was just college students now I bet
your parents are on Facebook and all
your friends are on Facebook and the
older demographics are on Facebook they
they eventually adapt once these
platforms start taking off
so what do you with you I guess you know
when you guys are advising other
companies and and I think most of your
client base I'm guessing now is kind of
larger companies what is your client
base now I mean I guess maybe I
shouldn't assume that I should ask you
what does that look like for you guys
we work with smbs all the way up to
Fortune 1000 companies or Global 1000
companies
um so we handle all ends of the spectrum
majority of our revenue does come from
the global 1000 type companies
so what does uh going back to the smbs
what does that look like like an intake
meeting is it someone's coming to you
and saying help us put our whole
marketing strategy together or is it
um they do come to us and they say hey I
need more traffic I need more sales they
come to us with a problem then we sit
down and we analyze and we figure out if
we can help and what it's going to look
like and then we come up with a plan and
say this is what we can do this is what
it's going to cost does it work for you
and we do a whole presentation uh I I'm
you know
you know uh what is it called
summarizing it into uh 32nd right you
know deal but it it's involved of many
phone calls many hours of diligence and
research and Analysis and probably it
takes a few weeks before presentation is
out
do you guys get into Beyond just social
and all of that is it is it also email
campaigns is it everything so everything
digital so we'll do email marketing
conversion optimization social media
both organic and paid uh uh I don't know
if it mentioned conversion optimization
but SEO and paid ads on Google and media
buys and connected TV like literally the
list goes on and on
space for you that
because you're still even though you've
been at it for what 22 years now at
least uh you're still such a young guy
is and you're an artist so this is your
artist that you love it's your baby but
at the same time like do you see
yourself branching out into other areas
because I know this has become a
kind of a bigger thing than it was
initially but like what does that look
like
you know so people have asked me that
and I thought about it you know what's
funny is four or five years ago I would
say yeah I would Branch out into a lot
of other stuff
but I'm happy I'm happy in what I'm
doing the market is big enough if you
look at the marketing industry it's just
massive I think I'm pretty good you know
no I like to hear it that's the artist
see that's the artist again
um Neil that's it is it's the artist
because it's the love for the work right
it's the it's the I'm I I you have a
craft you're very good at doing it
um uh the entrepreneur would would not
like that right and and um it's funny
because most of us own businesses I
think
I've always when I've had to look at
this too I'm probably more of a leader
out of those things and obviously you
have entrepreneur instincts it's what
got you to do what you did when you were
15 years old it's got me to it's why we
own our own businesses we have we have
that we have that gear we just don't
necessarily live there you kind of live
in the artist gear I live in the in the
artist and leader gears a little bit
when I'm talking to someone that's uh
that serial entrepreneur type they would
not like the day-to-day right they'd
just go into make it and then move on
essentially you know and so yeah the
other reason I asked though is it seems
like your business and it sounds like it
did a little bit you were mentioning one
of your clients earlier where you guys
can drive traffic to them you can do
your job really well right you could
take them from whatever maybe they get
500 hits a month and now you take it to
five thousand
but then what about the conversion after
that so do you guys get involved at all
into sales or do you have partners that
you bring in
no no we do it all we'll handle the
traffic the conversions well okay track
the revenue the cost to acquire our
customer the ROI we'll work on the whole
funnel we'll figure out what's wrong
what needs to be fixed very cool well
product
so like if a business isn't doing well
because people don't like the product
and has terrible reviews I can't do much
to fix that that's more so the business
owner or the entrepreneur or the company
to fix that but I can work on the
traffic and the sales portion and I'm
assuming you're trying to vet some of
that stuff out anyway when you do like
an intro call and and whether you can
help them or not right we do there's
some people we know we can get a ton of
traffic to but they got one star reviews
literally on their product and like it's
it's a lost cause and we'll talk to them
like Hey I've thought about improving
your product and they're like oh no
those people are wrong I'm like well if
you think those people are wrong it
doesn't matter what we're gonna do if
they want to leave one star reviews and
you have hundreds of them already
it's not going to do any good right
right no this is like you're gonna drive
more traffic and they're never going to
convert right so it has to be a team
effort I'm not saying I'm right I'm not
saying they're right it's just different
viewpoints so might as well work with uh
companies that have similar viewpoints
and we know we're gonna get along
generally and I guess I'm still talking
about small businesses I guess it could
be smaller or large
so when you guys come in let's say uh
you know I'm a company owner I bring you
guys in you kind of evaluate everything
that we're doing you um suggest some
ways that you can not only up our kind
of branding but get people to our
website like you said maybe we've got
good reviews so you figure it can
convert
do do companies then stay with you on
kind of a subscription basis or or you
know forever
yeah or do you teach them how to do it
and you move away at some point no
companies usually hire us because they
don't want to be taught how to do it
they just want us to do it uh we went we
used to go to the router we used to try
to teach them how to do it and then we
would get a lot of pushback and say can
we just pay you to do it that's how we
actually ended up starting
and it's an annual contract monthly
retainer but over annual contract and
yeah people stay with us for a long time
that's very cool
um if people
um and I still want to hear about some
other things but if if small businesses
because I'm guessing that our individual
business owners that are on here you
know generally I would consider small
business being you know under maybe 50
million a year or something like that if
they want to do business with you guys
and we'll have all your info in there
but do they you guys just schedule an
intake call with them then and go over
exactly the stuff they're talking about
you just go to npdigital.com so Ann as
in Nancy p as in Paul pretty much my
initials n is for Neil actually piaz and
Patel so
npdigital.com and they can learn more
and schedule calls and all that kind of
stuff from there very cool so I wanted
to know along this journey uh you said
you got you got married you have kids
I had two kids yeah so what's this
what's that balance look like for you
because you've got this company that's
hyper growth over five years are you an
80 hour a week guy or is it pretty do
you got a pretty nice balance at this
point
I don't have a nice balance I work
heavily I travel almost every single
week most of my flights are
international uh I try to create a
balance and spend time with the kids or
take them with me and the wife Etc uh my
wife is really understanding kids it's a
little harder but when I am here I try
to spend a lot of time with them and
really make things happen like for
example my daughter wanted me to pick
her up today uh I have another podcast
interview during the time she normally
gets picked up I'm going to talk to my
wife to see if I can pick her up like an
hour early go and pick her up from
school spend some time with her do a
puzzle and then do another podcast
recording uh later on so but when I am
here I try to be like in a hundred and
ten percent which is hard that time
that's what I try to be it also sounds
like from what you were saying though
it's like it's different when I had
somebody ask me recently because I'm a
coach in a recruiter's program
um where one of the things that we're
trying to uh I guess one of the selling
points and it's it's not my selling
point I'm just coaching in the program
but one of the kind of marketing points
is you know learn how to automate your
marketing learn how to automate your
business so that you can work basically
Less hours right set up automation
machines to let stuff come to you and
then somebody got back to me because
they saw my calendar right and it's and
it's pretty busy right and they said
um well hey you're like the guy teaching
this stuff
you know why don't I mean how come
you're not working a 30 hour 20 hour
work week or in Tim ferriss's case four
or whatever you know it
is you love it exactly and that's what
I'm saying I said there's a big
difference between having to go to work
and wanting to go to work and if
I I guess if I changed anything with the
marketing the program it would be get
yourself to a point where you don't have
to from a financial standpoint you know
work this many hours right but if you
want to then that's just how you choose
to spend your time and and you know so
that was part of it the other part and
and you can relate to this uh very much
so it's like I this is our second year
in business and I think we'll make the
Inc 5000 this year as well and and
congratulations no thank you and I'm
looking at it and I'm going
how do you not take advantage of that
like sometimes there's there's stuff in
front of you that is so
uh exciting and big that it's like I
almost feel like it would be a
this sounds this is gonna sound weird
but I almost feel like it's a calling or
like a spiritual thing where it's like
the universe is like conspiring to make
all these things kind of happen at the
same time
who am I to ignore it now at the same
time
paying attention to my relationships um
paying attention to that imbalance
sometimes in trying to make it as as
good as possible I agree with and that's
that to me is the challenge but it's not
like no I'm not going to follow this
even though we're having these all of
these amazing opportunities because I
need to be home two hours earlier every
day or whatever you know and and um yeah
so I I hear you and when you're having
the kind of growth you guys are having
even when I ask you like how many
employees did you guys have two years
you're like I don't know because it's
moving that fast for you guys right that
like it's hard to even look at the
benchmarks because you whiz by them so
fast
uh was it's not that it's part of that
but it's more so like just having fun
doing it yeah uh don't keep track of
things like that I more so keep track of
other metrics which for me uh are more
important like what are the results
we're providing to customers what does
their growth look like I just love what
we're doing for me you know it's just
like yeah it's cool uh that we're adding
more head count the number I really keep
track of right now is how many countries
we're in because I want to see if we can
get into 50 countries it's just a
question of how long is it going to take
that's very cool yeah I've always said I
mean I think when any of us look back
it's funny because we won't remember
like oh in the year 2023 we generated
you know 63 million in revenue or
whatever and it's like
you will you won't remember that you
will remember the client that was in the
toilet and really kind of desperate when
they brought you on and they ended up
bringing their business all the way back
and taking it IPO or you know
dramatically changed their life or
created a thousand new jobs or like
those are the kinds of things I think
that stick you know well unless you're
the entrepreneur and you're exactly
right like you you know when you're
breaking down your definitions the
entrepreneur would more so care about uh
how much money they made that year that
that's true and there's nothing wrong
with that you know like like when I was
bringing it up no don't get me wrong we
want to make more money every single
year not always possible you know if you
continue on for 100 years you're gonna
have some bad years but it's more so you
know for me it's passion and love first
before anything else yeah I think it's
sort of what are you leading with right
and and then do the other things follow
do they become a byproduct of that so
going into that just a little bit
um where do you want to take this I know
you said you're pretty happy with where
you're at from a career standpoint right
now not a lot of big immediate goals on
the horizon but as you look forward are
there personal or professional things
that you want to do longer term like
have you given that a lot of thought or
are you just more like to live in the
moment no I didn't give much of it I
thought I live in the moment other than
with family one thing I would like to
change is spending more time with them
so that's all the other that's the main
thing of course on my mind other than
that you know I'm pretty good and I'm
making strides on that as well over the
next few months will be taking some time
off and spending it with the family so
that'll be good yeah I found that the
best way for me to do that was to just
do it right like block it like anything
else and then it seems to happen you
know
totally very cool well I've loved having
you on
um by the way our audience doesn't know
this but uh Neil was on with me last
week or was going to be on with me and
was gracious enough to reschedule for
today because I had a clamp conflict so
thanks so much for doing that
um what are some ways that people like I
said you mentioned um and uh your
company and how to get in touch with you
there we're gonna put all this into show
notes but where else can people find you
neilpatel.com all my social handles are
Neil Patel Neil p-a-t-e-l uh and our Ad
Agency is NP digital